---
layout: post
title: About Me
date: 2021-09-23
---

I started programming when I was twelve-years-old, close to the end of sixth grade, so 2012. I was taking a typing class and the teacher allowed my classmate to give a presentation on HTML to us. I was absolutely _enamored_. I remember going straight to the computer when I got home to make a "Hello World!" page. It was like actual lightning struck in my life.

From there, I just didn't stop. I was overseas for the first half of that Summer and spent any amount of time I was at the house on my mother's laptop, making websites. I remember using YouTube downloaders to download 240p versions of videos that taught you how to use HTML/CSS/JavaScript. I spent the second half of the Summer with my grandparents, again spending as much time as I could on the computer. I had discovered [codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com/) and spent my days completing the lessons and challenges for various languages, including JavaScript, Python, and briefly Ruby.

My first major step into the world of computer science and more serious programming was in 2013, when I bought a book on C++. While I wouldn't say I was the smartest middle schooler out there, I certainly had drive. I used to sit and "read" the book, glossing over words like "heap" and "stack", skimming pages and focusing mostly on the examples. While I didn't learn C++ very well by doing that, I was writing code pretty often and getting used to it.

In that same year, I began learning Objective-C and Cocoa programming for creating macOS desktop applications. I vividly remember sitting at my uncle's desk after midnight, when I finally got the text typed into a textfield to display in a label after pressing a button. I actually woke him up from being so excited. I had a YouTube channel as well, and at that point I had begun making more programming-oriented videos. My interest in Cocoa programming and creating programming content lasted through 2014, mostly due to Swift. Unfortunately, I lost all motivation to continue once I got to high school, so I never continued. Maybe one day I'll start it up again.

In 2015-2016, I took my first official course in Java through my high school. After this course, I ended up taking an unintentional hiatus from programming. I returned in 2017 when I was a senior in high school taking AP Computer Science. From then on, I never stopped writing code. Haven't stopped. Probably won't stop.

I'm currently a mathematics-computer science major at UC San Diego and a data engineer intern at Integral Ad Science; I've taken a plethora of math and CS courses.

Relevant coursework includes:
 * Advanced Data Structures and Algorithms (CSE 100)
 * Introduction to Numerical Analysis (MATH 170A)
 * Software Tools and Techniques (Bash and Git) (CSE 15L)
 * Computer Organization and Systems Programming (CSE 30)
 * Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning (MATH 109)
 * Applied Linear Algebra (MATH 102)
 * Introduction to Mathematical Software (MATH 157)
 * Exploratory Data Analysis and Inference (MATH 189)
 * Software Engineering (CSE 110)
 * Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CSE 101)

Some favorite classes of mine at UCSD so far:
 * Differential Geometry (MATH 150AB)
 * Topics in Topology: Knot Theory (MATH 191)
 * Mathematics of Finance (MATH 194)
 * Post-relational Data Models (CSE 190)